# Studbud -  Iteration and Improvement

This README text document will go through the reflection I had underwent through the different iteration stages and how it helped to improve my web application - incorporating feedback and using my own reflection/judgement to see through changes.

Home Page/Overall Layout:

In comparison to the old mockup - the current and final version shown uses a better bolder font alongside mainly red, blue, green and gradient colours. Using these simple colours allows for a simplistic yet aesthethic look without being too overbearing for the user personas (Medical Student, Music Student, Computer Science Student) who want a simple, efficient yet modern style aimed to focus on improving their studying habits. The navigation bar is also set as a blue background colour - with similarity also used in the sub-navigation bars to allow for a sleek and visually appealing look for users. An appropriate title (Studbud) and favicon showing an image of a lamp and books to signify study was also used for the website as well. 

Favicon Icon - Prosymbols. (n.d.). Study free icon [Online image]. Flaticon. Retrieved from: https://www.flaticon.com/free-icon/study_747086?term=study&page=1&position=5&page=1&position=5&related_id=747086&origin=search

Task Management:

A very similar style was kept in accordance to the old mockup with the current version however due to the complexity of initally wanting to incorporate a smooth carousel slider - I had instead used the overflow css property which makes it very simple for horizontal and vertical scroll features instead of incorporating another module online which would save time and allow for more simplistic functionality which is easy to use and navigate through. 

A modal tab was also accordingly added to allow ther user to enter in their tasks in a manner that is easy to understand and allows proper user input. Given my self-reflection and feedback from the tutor on improving the modal tab - validation to ensure that users have included all details inside their labels was incorporated to ensure all fields were filled in alongside preventing spamming from happening. This validation was also applied to other areas where a modal tab was used in order to keep consistency and improve the user interaction with the web application. The incorporation of modal tab was also useful for responsive design as it can be dynamically changed with the width and height percentages to fit inside phone screens which is way better than my initial idea of having the task form beside the task box container which would be harder to alter in responsive design and not as sleek as using a modal tab which can be consistently used throughout other sections. 

The Kanban Board was kept in the same style of my old mockup however I had also ensured to add a way for the user to add in their own column name through another modal tab which allows them to add their own custom column name - which they can then drag around tasks from other Kanban Boards accordingly. Allowing this simplistic style allows personas such as the Medical and Music student personas to be able to see all their tasks they need to be complete and gives them freedom to move around and add tasks as well. 

Time Management:

The stopwatch timer had been kept the same as the old mockup as the style was aesthethically appealing yet simple enough for a potential user to use, however the Pomodoro Timer section had changed from the old mockup. The changes made consisted of using a modal tab to allow the user to alter their pomodoro sessions and break times instead of using a side-bar form as it would be harder for me to incorporate in responsive design in comparison to the modal tab which is very easy to incorporate in responsive design and also would be more suitable in terms of UX consistency alongside allowing the user to edit the settings of their timer as well. 

In mentioning this, side-tabs of the different timing modes were also shown beside the Pomodoro Timer rectangle to show the different gradients and colour schemes for each mode - with each of them accordingly used to distinguish them and visually tell the user the different modes of the pomodoro timer without needing to explain it, different from my old mockup which didn't use different colour modes but instead just had one main big rectangle which isn't as clear as to how these different modes will appear as the current version is. A validation form was once again also incorporated to allow the freedom for the user to edit and modify their times, and ensure they have entered all fields in before beginning to start the pomodoro timer. The pomodoro timer is also set in a manageable manner such that personas such as the Music Student and the Computer Science Student can quickly edit their own times and settings and getting straight into efficient and quick study period sessions in an effortless manner. 

Acronym Maker:
The acronym maker had also been kept the same however a similar green gradient was used to ensure consistency, alongside the addition of an acronym viewer tab inside the sub-navigation tab to allow the user to jump back and forth between the two tabs so that they can add in the phrases they want to generate their acronym, and view the acronyms they have created in a horizontal box carousel manner. Similarly, instead of using a complex carousel - a simple overflow was used to ensure the user can scroll past the acronym boxes inside the "Acronym Viewer". Due to the extra complexity of using different colour coding in accordance to the acronym and the phrases, I had instead had the acronym phrases presented one word per line and ensured the background colour for the acronym was red and kept the same - in ensuring it was not overbearing for the personas - such as the Medical Student who would to be able to see all their acronyms created from many phrases and terms in a concise and straightforward manner.

Music Player:
Instead of making a new fully fletched music player, I had instead used a spotify iframe responsive element lofi playlist which would be suitable for all my personas who want calming and enjoyable music to focus on their study sessions. This was more easier to implement and more suitable than creating a new music player which would waste time and effort instead of just using a lofi playlist, with lofi music being chosen as it is said to help keep a person's brain at focus and helps them maintain this mindset of focus overtime (Lutes, 2017) - Lutes, B. (n.d.). Lo Fi Music. Hyde. Retrieved June 11, 2021, from https://www.hyde.edu/blog/hyde_school_blog/lo-fi-music-a-secret-to-focusing-during-study-sessions/

Conclusion: 
All in all, majority of the styles and elements were kept from the old mockup - however using feedback from peers and my tutor - alongside my own self-reflection and judgement, the addition of using modal tabs, validation elements and considerations to responsive design helped elevate and improve this final web application - in being more usable and visually clear for desktop and mobile versions. 


